docs/discussion/contexts.rst, before:

.. _contexts:

Contexts
========

Quart, like Flask, has two contexts the *application context* and the
*request context*. Both of these contexts exist per request and allow
the global proxies ``current_app``, ``request``, etc... to be resolved.
Note that these contexts are task local, and hence will not exist if a
task is spawned by ``ensure_future`` or ``create_task``.

The design principle of these contexts is that they are likely needed
in all routes, and hence rather than pass these objects around they
are made available via global proxies. This has its downsides, notably
all the arguments relating to global variables. Therefore, it is
recommended that these proxies are only used within routes so as to
isolate the scope.

Application Context
-------------------

The application context is a reference point for any information that
isn't specifically related to a request. This includes the app itself,
the ``g`` global object and a ``url_adapter`` bound only to the app. The
context is created and destroyed implicitly by the request context.

Request Context
---------------

The request context is a reference point for any information that is
related to a request. This includes the request itself, a ``url_adapter``
bound to the request and the session. It is created and destroyed by
the :func:`~quart.Quart.handle_request` method per request.

Websocket Context
-----------------

The websocket context is analogous to the request context, but is
related only to websocket requests. It is created and destroyed by the
:func:`~quart.Quart.handle_websocket_request` method per websocket
connection.

Tasks and contexts
------------------

Context is bound to a ContextVar and will be copied to tasks created
from an existing task. To explicitly copy a context Quart provides the
decorators :func:`~quart.ctx.copy_current_request_context` and
:func:`copy_current_websocket_context` which can be used as so,

.. code-block:: python

    @app.route('/')
    async def index():

        @copy_current_request_context
        async def background_task():
            method = request.method
            ...

        asyncio.ensure_future(background_task())
        ...

.. note:: The decorator must be used within an existing context, hence
          the nested function.

Commit message:

Mention @stream_with_context in the context discussion
As @copy_current_request_context doesn’t currently support asynchronous
generators, @stream_with_context is sometimes necessary, so it makes
sense to mention it on the same page for better discoverability.

Signed-off-by: Andrej Shadura <andrew.shadura@collabora.co.uk>

docs/discussion/contexts.rst, after:

.. _contexts:

Contexts
========

Quart, like Flask, has two contexts the *application context* and the
*request context*. Both of these contexts exist per request and allow
the global proxies ``current_app``, ``request``, etc... to be resolved.
Note that these contexts are task local, and hence will not exist if a
task is spawned by ``ensure_future`` or ``create_task``.

The design principle of these contexts is that they are likely needed
in all routes, and hence rather than pass these objects around they
are made available via global proxies. This has its downsides, notably
all the arguments relating to global variables. Therefore, it is
recommended that these proxies are only used within routes so as to
isolate the scope.

Application Context
-------------------

The application context is a reference point for any information that
isn't specifically related to a request. This includes the app itself,
the ``g`` global object and a ``url_adapter`` bound only to the app. The
context is created and destroyed implicitly by the request context.

Request Context
---------------

The request context is a reference point for any information that is
related to a request. This includes the request itself, a ``url_adapter``
bound to the request and the session. It is created and destroyed by
the :func:`~quart.Quart.handle_request` method per request.

Websocket Context
-----------------

The websocket context is analogous to the request context, but is
related only to websocket requests. It is created and destroyed by the
:func:`~quart.Quart.handle_websocket_request` method per websocket
connection.

Tasks and contexts
------------------

Context is bound to a ContextVar and will be copied to tasks created
from an existing task. To explicitly copy a context Quart provides the
decorators :func:`~quart.ctx.copy_current_request_context` and
:func:`copy_current_websocket_context` which can be used as so,

.. code-block:: python

    @app.route('/')
    async def index():

        @copy_current_request_context
        async def background_task():
            method = request.method
            ...

        asyncio.ensure_future(background_task())
        ...

If you need to provide the ``request`` context in an asynchronous
generator, use the :func:`quart.helpers.stream_with_context` decorator
as discussed in :ref:`streaming_response`:

.. code-block:: python

    @app.route('/')
    async def index():

        @stream_with_context
        async def async_generator():
            async for data in request.body:
                yield data

        await consume_data(async_generator())
        ...

.. note:: The decorator must be used within an existing context, hence
          the nested function.
