docs/how_to_guides/websockets.rst, before:

.. _websockets:

Using websockets
================

To use a websocket declare a websocket function rather than a route
function, like so,

.. code-block:: python

    @app.websocket('/ws')
    async def ws():
        while True:
            data = await websocket.receive()
            await websocket.send(data)

``websocket`` is a global like ``request`` and shares many of the same
attribtues such as ``headers``.

Manually rejecting or accepting websockets
------------------------------------------

A websocket connection is created by accepting a HTTP upgrade request,
however a server can choose to reject a websocket request. To do so
just return from the websocket function as you would with a route function,

.. code-block:: python

    @app.websocket('/ws')
    async def ws():
        if (
            websocket.authorization.username != USERNAME or
            websocket.authorization.password != PASSWORD
        ):
            return 'Invalid password', 403  # or abort(403)
        else:
            websocket.accept()  # Automatically invoked by receive or send
            ...

Sending and receiving independently
-----------------------------------

The first example given requires the client to send a message for the
server to respond. To send and receive independently requires
independent tasks,

.. code-block:: python

    async def sending():
        while True:
            await websocket.send(...)

    async def receiving():
        while True:
            data = await websocket.receive()
            ...

    @app.websocket('/ws')
    async def ws():
        producer = asyncio.create_task(sending())
        consumer = asyncio.create_task(receiving())
        await asyncio.gather(producer, consumer)

The gather line is critical, as without it the websocket function
would return triggering Quart to send a HTTP response.

Testing websockets
------------------

To test a websocket route use the test_client like so,

.. code-block:: python

    test_client = app.test_client()
    async with test_client.websocket('/ws/') as test_websocket:
        await test_websocket.send(data)
        result = await test_websocket.receive()

If the websocket route returns a response the test_client will raise a
:class:`~quart.testing.WebsocketResponse` exception with a
:attr:`~quart.testing.WebsocketResponse.response` attribute. For
example,

.. code-block:: python

    test_client = app.test_client()
    try:
        async with test_client.websocket('/ws/') as test_websocket:
            await test_websocket.send(data)
    except WebsocketResponse as error:
        assert error.response.status_code == 401

Sending and receiving Bytes or String
-------------------------------------

The WebSocket protocol llows for either bytes or trings to be sent
with a frame marker indicating which. The
:meth:`~quart.wrappers.request.Websocket.receive` method will return
either ``bytes`` or ``str`` depending on what the client sent i.e. if
the client sent a string it will be returned from the method. Equally
you can send bytes or strings.

Mixing websocket and HTTP routes
--------------------------------

Quart allows for a route to be defined both as for websockets and for
http requests. This allows responses to be sent depending upon the
type of request (WebSocket upgrade or not). As so,

.. code-block:: python

    @app.route("/ws")
    async def http():
        return "A HTTP request"

    @app.route("/ws")
    async def ws():
        ...  # Use the WebSocket

If the http definition is absent Quart will respond with a 400, Bad
Request, response for requests to the missing route (rather than
a 404).

Commit message:

Add a brief note on disconnection to the WebSocket how to guide
This should help clarify how to do this for WebSockets.

docs/how_to_guides/websockets.rst, after:

.. _websockets:

Using websockets
================

To use a websocket declare a websocket function rather than a route
function, like so,

.. code-block:: python

    @app.websocket('/ws')
    async def ws():
        while True:
            data = await websocket.receive()
            await websocket.send(data)

``websocket`` is a global like ``request`` and shares many of the same
attribtues such as ``headers``.

Manually rejecting or accepting websockets
------------------------------------------

A websocket connection is created by accepting a HTTP upgrade request,
however a server can choose to reject a websocket request. To do so
just return from the websocket function as you would with a route function,

.. code-block:: python

    @app.websocket('/ws')
    async def ws():
        if (
            websocket.authorization.username != USERNAME or
            websocket.authorization.password != PASSWORD
        ):
            return 'Invalid password', 403  # or abort(403)
        else:
            websocket.accept()  # Automatically invoked by receive or send
            ...

Sending and receiving independently
-----------------------------------

The first example given requires the client to send a message for the
server to respond. To send and receive independently requires
independent tasks,

.. code-block:: python

    async def sending():
        while True:
            await websocket.send(...)

    async def receiving():
        while True:
            data = await websocket.receive()
            ...

    @app.websocket('/ws')
    async def ws():
        producer = asyncio.create_task(sending())
        consumer = asyncio.create_task(receiving())
        await asyncio.gather(producer, consumer)

The gather line is critical, as without it the websocket function
would return triggering Quart to send a HTTP response.

Detecting disconnection
-----------------------

When a client disconnects a ``CancelledError`` is raised, which can be
caught to handle the disconnect,

.. code-block:: python

    @app.websocket('/ws')
    async def ws():
        try:
            while True:
                data = await websocket.receive()
                await websocket.send(data)
        except asyncio.CancelledError:
            # Handle disconnection here
            raise

.. warning::

    The ``CancelledError`` must be re-raised.

Testing websockets
------------------

To test a websocket route use the test_client like so,

.. code-block:: python

    test_client = app.test_client()
    async with test_client.websocket('/ws/') as test_websocket:
        await test_websocket.send(data)
        result = await test_websocket.receive()

If the websocket route returns a response the test_client will raise a
:class:`~quart.testing.WebsocketResponse` exception with a
:attr:`~quart.testing.WebsocketResponse.response` attribute. For
example,

.. code-block:: python

    test_client = app.test_client()
    try:
        async with test_client.websocket('/ws/') as test_websocket:
            await test_websocket.send(data)
    except WebsocketResponse as error:
        assert error.response.status_code == 401

Sending and receiving Bytes or String
-------------------------------------

The WebSocket protocol llows for either bytes or trings to be sent
with a frame marker indicating which. The
:meth:`~quart.wrappers.request.Websocket.receive` method will return
either ``bytes`` or ``str`` depending on what the client sent i.e. if
the client sent a string it will be returned from the method. Equally
you can send bytes or strings.

Mixing websocket and HTTP routes
--------------------------------

Quart allows for a route to be defined both as for websockets and for
http requests. This allows responses to be sent depending upon the
type of request (WebSocket upgrade or not). As so,

.. code-block:: python

    @app.route("/ws")
    async def http():
        return "A HTTP request"

    @app.route("/ws")
    async def ws():
        ...  # Use the WebSocket

If the http definition is absent Quart will respond with a 400, Bad
Request, response for requests to the missing route (rather than
a 404).
